in this episode highs Ward travels to
Kailua Kona Hawaii the Train and recover
on what many claim is a toughest course
in all of endurance sports the Ironman
World Championship course Aloha from the
Big Island on become one
Pines has come to kailua-kona
to get a feel for the brutal conditions
you'll be facing on race day in about
three months over the past nine months
Hinds has lost over 30 pounds through
his training and nutrition and is now
swimming cycling and running 15 to 20
hours every week he has completed an
Ironman 70.3 distance race in his
preparation but when he takes on the
Ironman World Championship Hines will be
doubling the distance doubling the
intensity and doubling the challenge
Kailua Kona is epicenter of triathlon
and the Ironman World Championship is
the crown jewel of the space the
oppressive heat and the unrelenting
unpredictable winds are what makes this
race in this place so unique the purpose
of coming out to Kona is really just to
get more familiar with the course you
basically just gonna go straight on and
the boys will be always be on your ride
this trip was meant to put it all out
there for him I tried to tell him about
the wind the heeds the hills the
monotony of the highway there's just no
way that you can explain the nuances of
this course getting the opportunity to
run the course come all the way down to
the Energy Lab I really don't know what
the energy lab is but it took all my
energy they drain
Ines takes on the Ironman World
Championship course with Ironman
champion and the man considered the best
cyclist of the sport Chris Lido it was
great that I had opportunity to ride
with Chris and Paula and the ride 80
miles on the course and dealing with the
heat the headwinds been in the midst of
a lava field or nothing around you if
the ride we did was awesome the wind
started blowing he didn't hide from it
he attacked it he wanted to confront
anything that was going to happen so I'm
thinking we'll be pretty close to two
miles today so we're heading out a mile
we're getting back mouth
today was a long swim for me over two
miles little nervous I mean more people
out here watching me you know George I
really don't get a lot of open water
swim so just to taste some salt water in
swimming dealing with the swells it was
more of a mental thing for me to see if
I can do it see if I can go to distance
it takes a lot out of you you really
have to dig deep down inside to find
that extra umph to make it today it was
a long swim for me over two miles get my
chocolate milk in and get ready for long
run this afternoon
it rained this morning so I'm sure by
the time I get out on the Run course
it's gonna be extremely hot so recovery
is everything to me the focus of this
trip was on creating a full week of
tough training that would simulate race
day conditions for Hines but Hines and
Lindsay his fiancee number one Supporter
and cheerleader did find a few hours to
get away for a little Aloha time Lindsey
has been there for Hines from the very
beginning of the become one journey it's
very heavy Lindsey here it's just
signing up for this Ironman it's kind of
been a burden on the relationship
because every day is kind of is consumed
my whole life in Hines out there
training is kind of incredible and he's
pretty inspiring for himself through
this this is a grueling process the
sacrifices that she made just to
understand and the preparation that goes
into becoming an endurance athlete he
wakes up we're talking about salt
tablets we're talking about racing none
of this would be possible without the
supporting team that I have to to be
there encouraging to do all they can to
help me cross that finish line and
Lindsay's kind of the captain of the
group I'm the official cheerleader of
the team I'm cheerleader refuel
during his time on the island Hine swam
the majority of the 2.4 mile Ironman
swim and was able to experience the heat
and wind on both the bike in the run
course with the winningest Ironman
triathlete in history
Paula Newby Frazier acting as his tour
guide I'm so blessed and so honored
because this is really the first time
she actually been on the course since
she last raced this was quite the trip
down memory lane as I say it's as tough
as it ever was and as familiar as it
ever was
she came back here and got on the course
for me to help me go out there and train
I wanted for him and I wanted for the
other bacán 1 athletes but I don't want
to be out there before the week ends
Hines in his support team enjoy a luau
hosted by the Sheraton Hotel & Resort
now it's time to take in some of the
Hawaiian culture and reflect on the week
having be nahyan now he's seen a very
typical Kona conditions he's had taste a
little bit of surf the wind the heat I
know all the NFL teams are going to
training camp this was my training camp
it was a grueling four days when I come
back in October I think I'll be ready to
go
I sense a complete renewed commitment
now I know that it's gonna be in his
head he's gonna visualize it it's like
his playbook is coming together for him
this is the ultimate goal right here
gotta finish I'm excited it gives me
some motivation when I go back home the
train even harder visualizing myself
coming down that last mile down by the
pier running up that ramp and crossing
that finish line that's something that
motivates me every day that I work out
his recon mission has been successful he
also understands how important it was to
come here to connect with the Big Island
it's obvious he has a newfound respect
for the history of the race and the
culture of the island Madame Pele the
goddess of fire win and volcanoes will
be waiting for him when he comes back
let's hope that she cooperates in future
episodes we send our camera crew back to
Atlanta as the pressure builds for Hinds
in the final days leading up to the
Ironman World Championship and you'll
see for yourself the pressure is getting
downright intense all that and more on
become one
you